---
title: "Reduced-Order models for Thermal Radiative Transfer Problems Based on Moment Equations and Data-Driven Approximations of the Eddington Tensor"

collection: publications

permalink: /publication/7-jmc-dya-jqsrt-2023

excerpt: ''

date: January 2023

venue: 'Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer'

paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2022.108458'

preprint_url: 'http://josephcoale.github.io/files/jmc-dya-jqsrt-2023.pdf'
---
DOI: [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2022.108458](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2022.108458)

[Download preprint here](http://josephcoale.github.io/files/jmc-dya-jqsrt-2023.pdf)

Abstract:<br/>
A new group of structure and asymptotic preserving reduced-order models (ROMs) for multidimensional nonlinear thermal radiative transfer (TRT) problems is presented. They are formulated by means of the nonlinear projective approach and data compression techniques. The nonlinear projection is applied to the Boltzmann transport equation (BTE) to derive a hierarchy of low-order moment equations. Approximation of the Eddington tensor that provides exact closure for the system of moment equations is found with projection-based data-driven methodologies. These include the (i) proper orthogonal decomposition (POD), (ii) dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) and (iii) a variant of the DMD. A parameterization is derived for this ROM for the temperature of radiation incoming to the problem domain (the radiation drive temperature). This parameterization is informed from results of a dimensionless study of the TRT problem. Analysis of the ROMs is performed on the classical Fleck-Cummings TRT multigroup test problem in 2D geometry with a radiation-driven Marshak wave. Numerical results are presented to demonstrate the performance of these ROMs for the simulation of evolving radiation and heat waves. Results show these models to be sufficiently accurate for practical computations with rather low-rank representations of the Eddington tensor. As the rank of the approximation is increased, the errors of solutions generated by the ROMs gradually decreases.

Recommended citation: J. M. Coale and D. Y. Anistratov, Reduced-Order models for Thermal Radiative Transfer Problems Based on Moment Equations and Data-Driven Approximations of the Eddington Tensor, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer 296 (2023) 108458.
